>> Mike North: So we're going to dive into
the next area of using visual studio code.
And what we're about to talk
about is type checking.
So Javascript is it as well as called
the dynamically typed language and
that basically means we
start worrying about
the types of things only when we
encounter like we're about to use it.
Right, so you get a value and
you try to do something with it.
Up until that point we don't
care about the types of things.
Types exist, if you've ever used type of,
you can see like there's some things
undefined or a function or a strength.
So it's not untyped.
I mean, people use that word but really
it's dynamically tight or duck tight.
So let's talk a little
bit about type checking
as it pertains to the modern web and
Javascript these days.
Let me bump my phone up a little bit.
So Visual Studio Code.
It is written mostly in TypeScript and
TypeChecking in general has
become really popular as of late.
So if you've used react before and
gone through the official tutorials,
you will see that proptypes was formerly
part of the react library as a whole.
It's been refactored out
into another library now.
But this did what is called
run time typechecking.
So if you pass things to a component,
the types of those things that you passed
to the component are verified to make sure
that you have alignment with what
that component is aligned to receive.
Facebook also has a project called flow.
And if you watch Brian Holt's
Complete Introduction to React,
version three, I believe this uses flow.
And this is static type checking, which
is similar to what TypeScript gives us.
And TypeScript, of course it's
a programming language and a library.
That is built and maintained by Microsoft.
And one of the advantages of static
type checking is there is no cost when
your program is actually running.
This is sort of, it's an advantage
in terms of making sure that
this eventual product of our
programming efforts is fast and
it ends up like having no
extra weight added to it.
But it also comes with a disadvantage
that we can only do so
much with static analysis.
Static analysis really doesn't it doesn't
tell us the full set of things that
could potentially go wrong with our code.
Just kinda looking at all of the obvious
usages without worrying about
all of the particular,
like paths that we can take through all
the different functions and all
the different objects of our code, right?
You need dynamic analysis for that.
So, We're gonna be talking mostly
about type script today but
these concepts, this hold true for
anything that cares about types.
A lot of what we're gonna be dealing with
today holds up equally well when dealing
with something like flow or closure
compiler that is an old Google project for
taking some raw JavaScript and
creating a minified, optimized build.
There are signs that it's sort of coming
back and that a rewrite is underway, and
that we might see a reboot
of closure compiler.
But that also involved
adding type information,
so there was potential to
optimize in type-specific ways.
So type script is,
I say it's a tight superset of JavaScript,
meaning that by default, most JavaScript
will work, as long as it can be kind of
interpreted in a strongly typed way,
most JavaScript expressions will work.
There are some that won't, for example,
if you had the number five double equals
the string with the number five in it,
in a strongly-typed world,
there's really no way to deal with
that kind of comparison, right?
In the strongly-typed world,
that's apples and oranges.
Its strings and numbers.
So type script relies heavily on type
inference which basically starts with
some of the most obvious to determined
types in your code and expands that
information outward in order to figure
out larger higher level type information.
For example, if you say I have a variable
x and that it's initial value is 65,
we can say well yes,
that has a type of number.
And if we have a function that eventually
returns that, we can say okay,
well this function returns a number.
We can kind of like expand out relay and
use some explicit type information that
we can get some you know value literal
to you know then determine like
what's going on with this function,
what's going on with object and
you know detect and deduce.
What various types may be
involved in other places.
So an important part of this were these
type definitions that we've been looking
at, .d.ts files where we had
the DOM API and we had object.freeze.
We looked at that type definition.
So this also,
whenever you use one of those,
that immediately gives TypeScript
a clue as to like how this might
be used cuz those functions
were turn a particular type or
they take a certain type of argument and
like deductions can be made there.
One of the core missions of type script
is you opt in to a type system here.
It is not a situation where you need
to like rewrite all of your code.
The hope is, one of the happy paths
to starting to use type script,
is you take you JS files,
you rename them to .ts files.
Files so they're type script and
most of your code should work right away.
Now you may get a ton of warnings and
you may need to supply clues where
type inference is not enough to figure
out what's going on but it shouldn't
be a situation where you must go through
and explicitly define as much as possible.
So this here as Typescript 2.3
which was only a couple months ago,
visual studio code can apply this
type analysis to regular Javascript.
You don't need to be
using type script files.
It will make as much sense as it can.
Out of your regular Javascript and we can
add comments in a way that are not going
to disrupt treating these
files as regular Javascript.
So if you have an existing project and
maybe some subset of your code
is particularly complex and
type information would go a long way in
order to like maintain order in that area.
Maintain like that you're doing
things in a consistent way.
You can up in to, using type
analysis in that are of your code
without having to bring in the TypeScript
compiler to process your files and to
like you now have the whole rest of your
team learn a new programming language.
It's just comments, it's just inert
stuff that is not technically code,
it's just sort of clues around your code.
So we're gonna use these JSDoc comments.
And Closure Compiler also uses
JSDoc comments, so this is another
example of like Let's adapt an existing
standard, an existing way of doing things.
Closing compiler,
I was using it last 2007, 2008 so
that's been about ten years and
it still works so let's keep using it.
We don't need a new method
to do this kind of thing.